# SOCIAL MEDIA AND DEEP NEURAL NETWORK FOR NATURAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT

**PROBLEM STATEMENT:**
The use of social media data and crowdsourcing for emergencies has emerged a few years ago, when social media started becoming a major channel to disseminate and share information. As an example, during the tsunami in the Philippines in 2012, 558126 tweets were produced in 8 different languages in the course of the first seven hours following the crises. Similarly, 20000 tweets/day were registered midst the 2012 Sandy storm in New York, and 5000 tweets/second were reported during the 2011 earthquake in Virginia (US). It has, therefore great potential to play a significant role in the future social media analysis in noisy crises situations.

Given the vast amount of information on social media and on crowdsourcing applications, finding relevant information in an effective manner has proved problematic for several reasons. The messages are typically brief, informal, and heterogeneous (mix of languages, acronyms, and misspellings) with varying quality. It is therefore mandatory to turn that messy data into a number of clear and concise messages for emergency responders or humanitarian organizations.

**SOLUTION:**
Our task is to classify social media posts into different categories to fulfil different information needs of respective organizations and individual. For example, Knowledge about magnitude of disaster is crucial to humanitarian organizations in distributing resources and collecting required financial aid for the same.

The aim of this phase is to detect crisis patterns in social media text that can be used to retrieve crisis related messages from big social media data in a way that it gives an overview of its status. The system should make use of the metadata available and of demographic information to allow the user to view information faceted by parameters, i.e. Based on location, demographic information etc. The system will have powerful search operators to enable capturing wider content than hashtag, provide users with means to constantly monitor the used synonyms and keywords, provide means to easily remove keywords from the search.

Thus, we are normalizing text, deducing the concepts and the topic of a cluster of texts. The texts related to a crisis situation are retrieved and a spatiotemporal representation of the crises is produced based on those texts. In this way, Deep neural network can be used to offer a decision support system to crises responders to help them better understand a crisis situation and produce more efficient decisions than traditional machine learning techniques.

After word and sentence analysis is carried out, the proposed approach moves to a higher level of abstraction: Classifying concepts from multiple social media messages. Explicitly, this means identifying what a writer tries to express (e.g. informing about a situation, crying out for help, express explicit needs, and so on) and understanding concepts from the message. The sentiment analysis which is carried out on the tweets can be made to go to a much deeper level. 
